---
layout: post
title: "Week 11 - July 13th"
date: 2015-07-13 10:00
author: Admin
categories:
- blog
- web-design
- Week 11
img: Stitchvid.png
thumb: thumb01.jpg
---

###<b>Graduation...</b>

Missed the Sunday deadline as for first weekend in a while I barely looked at a line of code.
Final projects got done and presented, celebrations were had and now the focus is on the important part - getting a job.

Here's a link to stitch - the crowdsourced video app we built

[Stitch](http://stitchvid.herokuapp.com/)

Lots to try and catch-up on this week so this will be fairly short but planning to do a full review of my experience at Makers Academy either end of this week or early next.

****

What I Learnt

* Extended UAT is critical - our app would be fully functional within one environment only to throw unexpected bugs in another (e.g. firefox on mobile...). Keen to learn more about how upfront design and implementation can best address some of these inconsistencies
* Heroku Memory issues - in a sea of heroku errors one of the new ones was around extending memory usage, seems like this is something to do with memory allowances against dynos. Without paying for dynos one way to address would be to refactor code to be more efficient e.g. reduce any inefficient queries of database
* Just as important to apply clear methodological thinking to CSS/ front-end designs - it is very tempting when working to a tight deadline and making design tweaks to just hack something together that works. This creates very shaky foundations and as such we had to rework our front-end structure to make it more extendable.

****

What was difficult

* Getting something to an actual production ready state - this was the first project where you have to stand-up and run a live demo and actually host real users. This creates a much broader set of complexities to address beyond getting the basic prototype programme working within your own development set-up.
* Building in time for extensions/ 'innovation' - as a result of the above, it is very easy to make very conservative iterations/ advances. When moving into an actual company I'll be interested to see how they make sure there is adequate room and provisions for certain teams to push on with more innovative, higher risk features

****

What's the plan next week

* Hiring week - its real life time so going to see what sort of opportunities are presented through Makers as well as hopefully progressing a few other avenues
* I need to get moving with the BitDonations mobile app I want to build - will check out Ionic as an option having seen a few people build impressive final projects with this framework

****

Code of the week...

Actually came from a side project I am working on - a subreddit search app.
Below code came from extending my knowledge of how to tie things together in a MEAN JS stack and surface recent searches that I am storing from users.

    GetSearchTerms.success(function(data) {
     self.searchHistory = []
     self.searchTrends = []
     var counts = {}
     for (x = 0; x < 5; x++) {
      if (data[x] != "" && data[x] != "undefined") {
        self.searchHistory.push(data[data.length-x])
        console.log(self.searchHistory)
      }
     };
     data.forEach(function(x)
      {counts[x.searchTerm] = (counts[x.searchTerm] || 0)+1
     })
     var sortedTerms = Object.keys(counts).sort(function(a,b){return counts[b]-counts[a]})
     self.searchTrends = sortedTerms.slice(0,5)
      }).error(function(data, status){
        self.searchHistory = [];
     });
****
<!--more-->


[hampden]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
